---
title: CompTIA Security+ Writeup
date: 2024-02-05 00:00:00 +0000
categories: [CompTIA]
tags: [cybersecurity, certification]
---

# Backround
The CompTIA Security+ is a widely recognized certification in the cybersecurity field demonstrating knowledge in fundamental skills necessary for the industry. The exam consists of 90 questions including multiple choice and performance based simulations across 5 major domains. I spent 2 months preparing for this exam and received a passing score. 

# Resources Utlizied 
* CompTIA Security+ (SYO-601) Complete Course & Exam by Jason Dion
* CompTIA Security+ (SY0-601) Practice Exams & Simulated PBQs by Jason Dion
* Professor Messer CompTIA Security+ (SY0-601) Videos, Course Notes, and Practice Exams

# How I Studied
To prepare for the exam I took digital and handwritten notes following along with both Jason Dion's and Professor Messer's video lectures. I found that Dion's material was great for learning the concepts, while Messer's was better for exam preperation. This is the case as Messer's content directly lines up with CompTIA's exam objectives while Dion's content tends to go beyond the scope of the exam. After note taking I utilized both sets of practice exams and continously studied on areas where I scored poorly in. Making flash cards was also very benefical to memorize and learn achronyms, standards, and ports and protocls. I also requently used the CompTIA reddit community to compare my studying methods with users who had recenty passed and were currently prepraring. After I started scoring in a range of 75 to 85 consisntently on practice exams, I locked in my exam date and made final preperations. The days leading up to the exam, I scaled back my rigorous sutidying and focused on reviewing my flash cards which helped me stay calm and not stresss over feeling potentially under-prepared. 

#  Prepration and Exam Tips 
* If you have a ".edu" account for school, utilize CompTIA's academic store to purchase a discounted exam voucher. You won't find a better price. 
* Take both digital and handwritten notes on important concepts.
* Make physical and digital flashcards to help with learning achronyms, standards, and ports and protocls.
* At the start of your testing period utlize the provided white board or sheet of paper to write down important concepts like the OSI model, standards, and ports and prtocolcs you may struggle to recall.
* Save the performance based simulations for last, focus on the multiple choice questions as they will make up the bulk of the exam.
* Look for keywords in the question phrasing and use deductive reasoning to eliminate answers that obviously don’t make sense for the question. 
* Don't overthink your answers, if you can't decide make a best guess and keep moving froward 
* Stay psotivie. Your mindset is everything.

# Closing Thoughts
Overall, I found the exam to be moderately challenging. I came in with a solid understanding of the exam objectives and my end score definitely reflected that. While the Security+ doesn't qualify me for any professional positions, it does demonstrate my understanding of fundamentals cybersecurity subjects and my commitment to learn more and succeed in the industry. The best piece of advice I can pass on to anyone looking to study and prepare for this certificatrion is to stay postive and cosnistent. If you put in the work, you'll get the results you want. 
